good evening everyone losland montgomery
with you once again and as always
thanks for spending this half hour with
me two percent of your day
this is the china history podcast and
we're 263 episodes into this humble
effort of mine
part five today of our overview of the
history of those adventurous chinese
immigrants who
left their families and homes in the
middle kingdom and created new lives for
themselves
in today's great kingdom of thailand
and the famous mid and late 19th century
chaos and social unrest
primed the pump for the greatest wave of
chinese migration in its
long history but violence and turmoil in
the homeland alone wasn't enough to
cause such huge numbers it was also the
introduction of a game-changing
innovation
beginning in the 1860s of regularly
scheduled steamer service
between bangkok and the major ports of
fujian
and guangdong once this became an
established and affordable service
more of the good people of guangdong and
fujian
saw this as a very attractive life
choice
we left off last time with the any these
secret societies and siam
proliferating in all the major ethnic
chinese population centers in the
kingdom
all this late 19th century prosperity
that
flooded into the kingdom stoked the
fires of illegal enterprises that came
hand in hand with these
economic good times but as mentioned
last time the government took this sad
song and made it better
and institutionalized sin taxes that
would be collected by these tax farmers
i mentioned last episode
so by taxing these vices and at least
from the treasury's
uh standpoint a bad thing
sort of kind of became a good thing
secret societies and organized crime
you could find them everywhere from
singapore in the south to the
corrad basin in siam and in all these
places
up and down the malay peninsula in
between siam and singapore
these secret societies thrived and
battled with each other for supremacy
over
land industries and opportunities
i don't want to get dragged away by the
rich history of penang
but this historic city in malaysia
was established in 1786 by the british
and became a crown colony in 1867
just like hong kong and a colony it
remained until 1957 when it
formerly became part of the malayan
federation
now besides all that great cooking and
magnificent culture
a lot of organized crime and secret
societies began there in penang
and just moved north into the kingdom of
siam and by the dawn of the 20th century
there were as many as two dozen angi or
secret societies just in bangkok alone
in 1898 the any or secret societies act
will be turned into law that effectively
outlawed these criminal organizations
they had become so disruptive to society
through their
control of labor and organizing strikes
at will and
leaving the economy hostage to labor's
demands
which well has two ways of looking at
that but
but generally speaking the capitalist
and ruling classes
tend to frown on strikes but as we enter
the 20th century the chinese who had
been coming in
dribs and drabs since the late year end
and early ming
and into the qing were really starting
to come
in numbers never imagined before the
siamese government and society at large
were kind of
caught off guard at the numbers of
chinese immigrants who
came to the kingdom so quickly late 19th
early 20th century and they came for all
kinds of reasons not just to get out of
harm's way
as i explained the siamese economy was
on fire
growing at a very brisk pace after sir
john bowering and his famous treaty
forced the rules of free trade down the
throats of king rama the forced
government
well they elected to embrace everything
and adapt it accordingly
and the greatest numbers of chinese
immigrants by a
major landslide and then some were the
diochus
who came originally from the chaoshan
region of guangdong province a part of
guangdong that's so
far east it's practically right on the
border with fujian province
it was only a three-hour car ride from
shantou to zhengzhou or xiamen
where the hawking people were
concentrated these were the two biggest
linguistic groups that settled in siam
but
the hawk yen as numerous as they were
compared to the numbers of dyochos who
ended up in siam
were a very distant second and as for
the other three major groups
hakka hainanese and cantonese
they were even less numerous but when
you added all five
groups up they comprised
thirty to thirty five percent of the
population of the kingdom of siam
here in the beautiful country chinese
americans
it's only about one and a half percent
of the population the hakkas
from their major homeland only a two and
a half hour car
ride from the port of shantou they
shared passage on these steamers with
their diochun neighbors
their languages were unintelligible to
each other so they probably
well didn't have much to talk about on
the voyage to bangkok
by the 1880s more than eight thousand
dojus per year
were entering siam by the turn of the
century
this annual figure was closing in on
fifty thousand per year
and as i said the diochu chinese by far
we're the most numerous linguistic group
to
try their luck in siam but they weren't
the only ones
and this steady torrent of immigration
stayed this way all the way into the
first two decades of the 20th century
before things began to slow down there's
nothing like a booming economy as far as
serving as a magnet for workers and
thrill seekers in search of financial
gain
along with all this wealth created
through trade came demand for
construction workers artisans and all
kinds of services that supplied the
economic good times
rivers that had served the siamese so
well since antiquity
were being replaced by roads and
railroads
and who was dominant in the construction
business well the ethnic chinese that
goes without saying
but it ended up being cantonese and
hakka firms
mostly that were contracted to handle
this kind of
infrastructure work the railroads of
siam that were
transforming the nation well like they
did everywhere else
well just as the taisan chinese built
the american railroads
in siam it was the dochu and hakka
workers who laid
down those 3220 kilometers of track
and as the tracks were laid and the
hinterlands were tamed
the anopheles mosquitoes feasted on the
blood of these
laborers and they perished by the
thousands from malaria
which in turn created more demand for
these men in
china to pick up and leave their
families in eastern guangdong province
and take that steamer voyage from
shantou to bangkok
and whatever hinterlands were opened up
by the railroads no you can be sure that
chinese merchants and
small businessmen followed and these
railroads
were built using the kingdom's internal
reserves
rather than falling into some debt trap
with foreign loans and we'll see later
they
well they sort of overdid it with all
the infrastructure projects
this wasn't true in every case but
certain groups of these
chinese laborers specialized in certain
industries or lines of work
that the ocho's as i said well they were
instrumental in
the building of the railroads but they
were also the ones you'd see working on
the docks
loading and unloading cargo the hawk yen
well you'd find them mostly in the
southern part of the kingdom
dominating the biggest industry down
there tin mining
the hakkas were the petty tradesmen
working in skilled professions that
consumers relied on like barbers tailors
operating family-owned dry goods stores
and the cantonese as i mentioned they
ran construction
as for the hainanese they fished
provided
general labor and cleared out the
hinterlands allowing these places so
distant from bangkok
to integrate with and become a new part
of the kingdom's
ever expanding economy
before we pick up from last time with
these angi or secret societies in siam
let me mention another noteworthy person
in the history of the thai chinese
this was si suryawongs
he was the regent for the young king
rama v when he was in his minority
c surya wong's had loyally served
rama iv king mangkhut his illustrious
family had
served the siamese monarchy going back
to king prosatong
who we mentioned in part one i don't
know if he had been
written into the script of the king and
i but he was a very prominent person
during the second half of the 19th
century
all the way up until his death in 1883.
he had been the one who had advised king
mongkut
that it was best for the kingdom given
the circumstances
to sign the borrowing treaty that ended
the centuries-old royal trade monopoly
and this was over the hard-line stance
of c surya wong's father
who also served the king as his frock
lung
anyway i don't want to rehash thai
history i wanted to mention see
surya wong's because he had a pretty
significant impact on the lives of the
ethnic chinese who inhabited the kingdom
in many cases going back generations
they had never been made part of the
system no one was feeling sorry for the
chinese because they were viewed as
standoffish and better off economically
than the rest of the good people of siam
but most ethnic chinese
well they got to reside in the kingdom
of siam but they didn't enjoy the
kinds of benefits that their majority
ethnic thai friends
took for granted for the chinese
there was only a long-standing status
quo that called for their community to
just
take care of their own as if they were
one big happy family
or even five big happy families
so we remember this headlining public
servant c
suryawongs who acted benevolently in his
role
of regent for a rather young king rama v
to lead the nation through some pretty
volatile times in the kingdom's modern
history
from 1868 to 1871
and as for thai chinese history
he institutionalized systems that
allowed the chinese
to use their own traditional chinese
ways
to look after the masses of humanity who
were arriving on these siamese shores
to take part in the explosive economic
growth that
followed the introduction of free trade
and the technical and financial
innovations of the times
it would see surya wongs who championed
the implementation of
government organs that provided the
mechanism
for the kingdom's ethnic chinese to
resolve conflicts
serve their most destitute and needy and
to provide
some order predictability and structure
to their daily existence and see surya
wong's
he wasn't shy in reaching out to the
angie if he thought
they would be the best ones to fix
whatever problem needed to be fixed
or maintain peace and serenity
in certain areas where chinese
predominantly lived
and by this late in the 19th century the
christian missionaries
first allowed into the kingdom under
rama iii
were all over southeast asia spreading
the good word
and siam being as overwhelmingly
buddhist as it was
didn't quite welcome this faith or the
ones preaching it the triads
they weren't big fans of the
missionaries either because they were
always railing against them
so the secret societies were often
called on by sea
surya wongs to push back against the
activities of these
missionaries these reforms he ushered in
during his times as regent did wonders
for the chinese community in siam
it wasn't anything that anyone got rich
off of but
there's often a lot to be said for an
orderly and harmonious society
these measures went a long way in
tamping down on rampant crime and
in a way alleviated anti-chinese
sentiment that
went along with all the violence and
disorder
matters concerning ethnic chinese and
thai locals
that was another story that got handled
the thai way
rama v king chulalongkorn
quite a long-reigning king of siam he
sat on the throne from 1868 to 1910
a good 42 years with the first few years
of his reign as we just saw was
managed by his regent c surya wong's
siam transitioned to the modern world
quite seamlessly
at least compared to other asian nations
under its westernized king mangkut
integration with the emerging
international export trade system
began ramping up pretty early especially
after the ball ring treaty
and now under king mangkut's ninth son
chulalongkorn
it was full speed ahead for the kingdom
he was sitting as pretty as the chien
long emperor was after he got to sit at
the head of the table following such
excellent stewardship by his father and
grandfather
siam was by all means leaving its past
behind and transforming into his modern
and nation-state as
one can get king rama v
introduced a whole slew of reforms this
included the abolition of slavery
and building a completely new government
and administrative organizational and
power structure
modeled on western examples and
introduced compulsory
primary school education and military
service for all males
these reforms were met with a great deal
of pushback by many conservative
elements in the government and
royal palace siamese politics was as
brutal and unforgiving as any rich
nations
let me mention another watershed moment
in the history of that time
that really shook things up this was the
1910 bangkok general strike
that lasted for three days in june 1910
this event on a simple level was a case
of the kingdom's ethnic chinese
pushing back against the government for
raising taxes
in this case a poll tax on all chinese
residing in the kingdom
the whole strike was written produced
and directed by the any secret societies
of bangkok
with additional support from pro qing
dynasty royalist elements
in bangkok's chinese community this city
was the pumping heart of the entire
siamese economy
and at the appointed hour the city was
brought to a standstill
and essential workers everywhere went on
strike
well to make a long story short it led
to a lot of suffering and no small
amount of inconvenience
to the general populace and when it
really started to hurt
and food was scarce if you could get
your hands on it
local resentment against the chinese
residents of the city
that was always mildly percolating under
the surface
started to become more open and palpable
in such a short time only a few days the
bangkok chinese community
sent a strong message of resistance to
the government
but looking at it another way it ended
up being a blow to the chinese community
first off not everybody was on board
with the whole idea
many were against it and even more
didn't get involved and
just remain neutral the chinese powers
within the community
in lockstep with the angie of bangkok
indeed
taught the government a lesson as far as
what they were capable of
we saw going back to toxin the great
following the destruction of ayutia in
how the monarchy in its desperation to
bounce back from
quite an upheaval had made an unofficial
alliance with its
industrious and commercial-minded
chinese subjects to promote trade and
commerce and in so
doing build the economy of the nation
not to mention the monarchy
and even though king rama v called in
the army to break this strike and go
after all the ringleaders
the government now knew their partner
in creating this prosperous and
economically vibrant society
demanded a certain degree of respect and
la say fair
treatment and that the tail can wag the
dog
if it wanted to well the powers that be
had to remain cognizant of that whether
they liked it or not
politically for the siam monarchy this
1910 bangkok general strike also proved
to be a turning point
in the handing over of a large degree of
power and authority
to the state and the military and as for
the centuries-old cushy alliance between
the kingdom's
ethnic chinese and the siamese monarchy
well that too took a hit and the power
paradigm at the pinnacle of
siamese politics began to shift away
from the grand palace
even up to then the kingdom of siam was
still
what you could call an absolute monarchy
integrating with the global trading
system so quickly and on
such a scale like siam did well i guess
you could say
things became a little bit too complex
to
leave in the hands of one hereditary
monarch in his court
this kind of economy that siam was
enjoying
needed a lot of government departments
and ministries to keep the
royal barge of state steady as she goes
well king chulalongkorn rama v he had
been king since he was 15 years old back
in 1868
as liberal and progressive monarchs go
he's right up there
he reigned a long time and set the
country in a nice
positive trajectory there were
confrontations during his reign with
france and
1892 that pushed siam out of laos and
cambodia
leaving those two peoples to their
french
indochinese fate and with britain in
siam was forced to hand over the states
of perlis
kedah terengganu and kalantan
so when king chulalongkorn's son watcher
of ut
was crowned king rama vi the nation of
siam was
sitting in a very nice place and as for
the 1910 general strike and all the
riots and unrest that brought bangkok to
a standstill
well that ended up being the same year
that king rama v
passed from this earth and the new king
watcher of oot
rama the sixth he put the blame for his
father's demise
solely on the chinese of bangkok and
their hangi leaders
in 1914 this king rama the sixth
well he's gonna take a swipe at the
chinese i don't know how
widespread this was meant to be or which
audience the king was playing to
but he had to have known this was
certainly gonna raise a few eyebrows in
some corners
this king rama vi he was smart
and educated his father king
chulalongkorn
saw to it that he had a proper education
at sandhurst
and oxford which would make
one in king water avoids royal shoes
either a brit hater or an anglophile
and he was the latter and in quite a big
way i might add
so he wrote this piece and it appeared
in a leading national journal and really
laid it all out as far as what the
secret and not so secret grievances of
the non-chinese inhabitants of the
kingdom of siam had
for their ethnic chinese fellow citizens
the piece was called the jews of the
orient
this is really more anecdotal history
than hardcore history but
the matter of the ethnic chinese and
siam
up to now and going back to toxin and
even earlier to the ayutia kingdom
well a lot of the local thai majority
who lived amongst them or depended on
them
well let's just say they had a few
things to say about the chinese that
well they wouldn't say it if any chinese
were within hearing distance
but king rama vi he was not so shy
and when he compared the ethnic chinese
inhabitants of his great and prosperous
kingdom to the jews
well i don't think he was using the jews
in a complementary way
king rama vi was sponsoring a new kind
of thai
nationalism and despite the chinese dna
and his makeup
the chinese residents of the kingdom
were about to get an amuse
boosh so to speak of what was to follow
in king watcheravoot's essay well he
must have been inspired by the protocols
of zion because
some of the claims he made were a rehash
of that 1903 russian document
he described the so-called jewish
problem in europe and all the classic
things about the jews that people
pointed to
perpetual outsiders in the societies
they dwelled in
never assimilate and all these innate
money-making skills and their worship of
mammon and
all the usual stereotypes and after
mentioning
all this king rama vi built his case by
drawing all these parallels between
siam's chinese ethnic minority
and the ashkenazi jews of europe and
after building up his case
the king made a few accusations and
points to support his argument
well the ethnic chinese they took all
the benefits that the nation offered and
offered no loyalty in return and they
thought they were superior and more
civilized than the local thai majority
and their loyalty was to china not to
the king of siam
and the nation they all lived together
in their communities and didn't mix and
they only spoke their languages with
each other
and then there was the angi and the
triads and secret societies and all the
crime and societal
unrest that was associated with that
whole world
he even went as far as to call the
chinese chameleons
who speak thai hang out with thai people
call themselves thai but only when it is
convenient
or expedient otherwise they live in
their own chinese worlds and live their
chinese lifestyles
and even their embrace of buddhism he
derided as
opportunistic the king claimed the
chinese would practice hinduism or
christianity it was beneficial to
whatever it was they were seeking
rama the sixth bottom line was this
quote
one is either thai or chinese he cannot
be both
end quote and no mincing words when he
argued quote
like vampires that chinese would suck
the lifeblood and fatally drain the
fledgling thai nation state
if they were not brought under control
end quote
he had once said not in this essay but
had addressed his people saying quote
i do not ask you to hate chinese i only
ask that you think more of yourselves
you who are thai must do more for your
own nationality
than you do for the chinese whenever you
must choose
between what is of benefit to the
chinese or the thai
there should be no question you should
choose the tie that is my only wish
end quote you know many people have said
this whole thing about the the jews of
the orient article was overblown
and that the king was playing to a
specific audience when he wrote that
piece you know
shouldn't be judged too harshly yeah
who's to say it's not like he was
revealing any big secret
the ethnic chinese had had that
albatross of success
around their neck for quite a while and
resentment against them began to
manifest itself in
more ways than in the past and king
watcher avut
wasn't the only one comparing siam's
chinese to the chosen ones
there was a gent from the british
foreign service of some note
herbert warrington smythe he was one of
those
britishers who served as an advisor of
sorts to a number of rulers
including the king of siam he wrote an
1898 book called
five years in siam volumes one and two
i saw it on amazon for two thousand
three hundred and seventy five bucks
let me quote something smith said quote
the chinese
are the jews of siam they have on the
whole
enjoyed an immunity from official
interference which they have neither
merited nor appreciated
their only return has been the species
of high-handed rowdyism which results
from the methods followed by chinese
secret societies
by judicious use of their business
faculties and their powers of
combination
they held siamese in the palm of their
hand
the toleration accorded them by the
government is put down to fear
they bow and scrape before authorities
but
laugh behind their backs and they could
sack half a bangkok in a day
end quote yes h warrington smythe
he was also a subscriber to the whole
you know yellow peril theory that was
making its way around the western world
that saw
orientals and asiatics as asians were
called by those types as this
existential threat so not surprising
yeah he had nothing
good to say about the chinese during the
reign
of rama vi the population of siam
reached over 10 million people
and as much as a third of that
population were ethnic chinese
no place else on planet earth
had more chinese living in their country
except china of course
in the 100 years leading up to the
founding of the prc
in 1949 over 20 million
chinese will head for the exits and
about half of that number
made a new home for themselves somewhere
in southeast asia
the chaossua and chaomong elites around
bangkok
and the surrounding areas and all the
way down the malay peninsula
more than ever before they had to really
go to great lengths to
show their utmost loyalty and devotion
to the king
and country because of their high
profile
and the way public sentiment was leaning
they were always suspect
the rank and file working class hua kong
chinese workers and less concern was
paid to them as they tended to
more readily melt into the thai pot
after a
generation or three king watcher of oots
reigned from 1910 to 1925
witnessed the bolshevik revolution and
the founding of the communist party of
china
you could be sure these ideas all wafted
into siam
and the thai monarchy not to mention the
government
cast a gimlet eye on anyone espousing
those kinds of ideas
and that went for sun yat-sen and all of
his followers too
no king emperor or dictator
was ever amenable to those kinds of
ideas and preferred
not to have any of that in their lands
and we'll see
first it was the taint of republicanism
that made the chinese suspect
and then later on it will be the stink
of communism
and the ethnic chinese of thailand will
often be cast as
sympathizers so siam's anglophile king
watcheravoot
robin vi he's called the father of the
first
thai nationalist movement the first and
not the last
well i think you all get the main idea
why don't we just put down our tools and
call it a day right here we'll pick up
next time
and travel through the war years 1914 to
1945.
you won't want to miss all that and once
more with feeling may i humbly remind
all y'alls
there are other ways to show some extra
support for this
family program that's been around for
how long 10 years
more than 10 years there's patreon.com
backslash china history podcast
and if you're like my man rich mitch in
that great country where we
have such a special relationship you can
hit me up via paypal
paypal dot me backslash china history
podcast
either way you'll have my eternal
gratitude
okay you beautiful and good-looking
listeners that's all i got for you this
time
thai chinese history part six next time
getting to the end or as far as i plan
to take it
this is losla montgomery signing off
from covet infested los
angeles california see you in a couple
weeks for another exciting episode
of that china history podcast